mm-hmm
what's up good people David town here
from next level guitar dot-com hope
you're doing well and today we have
another gear review guitar review for
you and I hope you like this one we have
a 65 66 maybe gibson firebird the the
coveted gibson firebird and a couple
things about this guitar this is the non
reverse guitar where the horn up here
normally on the Firebirds the lower horn
would be the one that sticks further out
and this one will be in a little further
but this is what's called the non
reverse Firebird so it's kind of
different the upper horn is actually
bigger than the lower horn now this
guitar has had some pretty heavy-duty
modifications to it we got the original
pick guard here which would have SAT
like this now this guitar has been
outfitted with seymour duncan pickups
and he switches which are not original
but the original pick guard would have
SAT like that okay in white and also
would have had the knife blade tremolo
you can see the kind of the holes for it
on the bridge here sitting like this
okay and originally it probably would
have came with p90s pickups these would
be the original to nurse for it this has
been flip that over okay you can see
they put it looks like a set of spurs
old maybe so this guitar has had a major
amount of work done to it but the gibson
firebird is such a famous guitar that i
thought it'd be fun to pull it out
anyway and guys probably one of the
biggest name players like Johnny winner
famous for playing the firebird Clarence
skate mouth Brown famous Firebird
players volume and tone control for each
pickup and this guitar has a very thin
body it's light bodies very thin
mahogany seems like it's mahogany has
the set neck okay
and it's um it's kind of neck heavy big
then the neck is kind of thin but chunky
so the guitar is kind of if I was to put
it here we kind of zip go this way so
for me I really don't like the way it
feels or plays but that's the great
thing about guitars there's so many
options out there you know you want to
find what a lot of people really love
the way this guitar feels in place you
got to find what's best for you to me it
just feels a little I don't like that
the neck heaviness of it or how
everything is kind of shifted up on this
guitar and look how much the neck is I
kind of play more with my hand back here
so this is a little bit different so it
just feels a little uncomfortable but
again I wanted to I thought it would be
nice to pull it out so you could hear
what this sounds like and kind of see it
because the Firebird is such a cool
instrument let me go through some of the
pickup combinations here and again this
is all tricked out and wired and I'm not
sure exactly of which because it looks
like there's a lot of different
combinations here original he looks like
there was another pickup not originally
but they at one time this had a third
pick up and probably the switches was
wired for that too so I'll just take you
through some of the sounds of this so
you can kind of see here some of the
cool tone
you
e
I'm gonna play out of the back pick up
now just play some heavy-duty maybe some
suspended chord and it has a pretty
thick ballsy sound so you can't argue
with that maybe not as ballsy is like
Les Paul but it's pretty thick pretty
chunky lots of Asus time
not you would like that I'm not even on
me
there you have it folks the gibson
firebird check out your local fire bird
at the ebay store near you i don't know
where would you get one I guess they're
still available in used guitar stores in
ebay the world's biggest marketplace and
craigslist but I check them out again
it's it's a very um it plays very
different I feel then like a Gibson Les
Paul or an SG it's a little different
feel I'm I'm not really used to it and
maybe it's something that you know if
you like the style you will get used to
or maybe you like that and you don't
like the way SG plays see it's all about
what the individual player likes so road
test them and test all out all guitars
that you can get your hands on find the
magic you know what feels best in your
hands and what sounds best to your ears
go to our website next level guitar com
hope you enjoy these lessons if you're
watching this on youtube on our rock on
good people site please hit the
subscribe button and take care and best
of luck in your guitar journey Rocco
you